This page provides centralized definitions for KEML-specific terminology.

---

## action

An action in KEML is a global name, loosely similar to CSS class names as used
in HTML.

It does not perform any work and is not owned by any element. It simply exists
as a declared intent that elements may emit or react to.

For example, `on:mouseover="foo bar"` vs `class="foo bar"`.  
`foo` and `bar` are both global identifiers in their respective systems. They
are not behavior — just names. In that sense, they are the same kind of thing.

Because actions are so simple, they can be understood by tooling.  
They can be statically analyzed and strictly typed.

Actions can be either used as inputs or outputs. You can only input one action
at a time into a receiving attribute, but output many.

There are 3\* distinct action types in KEML:

- event actions are generated by browser events
- result actions are generated by server results
- state actions are generated by evaluating state conditions
- [SSE](./sse.md) event types could be imagined as being the forth type, in the
  sense that they are used as event-like input actions (the output is on the
  server). They technically are not, though. But, they are also not really
  events in the same way as DOM events are either (I swear it is not as bad as
  it sounds, KEML makes them really nice to work with)

You can only consume an action of a compatible type.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
!!! info "Info"
    All actions are global within the page they are used on.  
    Use unique action names when needed to prevent collisions.
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

---

## state

A state in KEML does not represent data.

It is a boolean condition that an element can check on itself and output zero
or more actions.

For example, `if:loading="spinner"`.  
`loading` is a state condition and `spinner` is a state action.

---

## result

Even though this word may appear to be used interchangeably with response,
the two are not equal in meaning.

A response is a reply to a request, while a result can also arrive completely
unprompted, such as through [SSE](./sse.md).

All responses are results, but not all results are responses.

---

Now that we're done with the formalities, lets see it in action 🎉
